Since I’m in charge of the data governance part, I learned much more about data security and potential leakage. For example, production data can be directly copied from the production server and it might also be endangered if you copy those core data into a PC that connects public Internet. What’s more, there are some learning materials or ppts that contain those data and you have to carefully handle those risks. 

I used to think that data governance should be something pretty easy as long as everyone is not abusing their authority. However, there are far more points need to be carefully dealt with. Based on my understanding, the country and the banking industry are all putting up new regulations to banks constantly. It is of course necessary to train staffs to be more familiar with these and regularly improve their data security awareness. However, the company must help their employee understand the data structure of their own company. For example, if you are not familiar with Spark or Hadoop, it would be more likely to make some mistakes and leak the data. Since each department has his own data characteristics, so enough patience and training must be provided to the new employees. It is not a simply issues that can be easily solved. Instead, it is a complicated question that involves in multiple stakeholders to communicate and collaborate. That is why a data council or a CDO is needed. The negotiation processes can be hard and there could be conflicts and misunderstanding, so patience and enough authority must be given to the data council. 

Furthermore, as a data analyst or database manager, your role will not only be analyzing data or modeling data, but also keep your data secure and keep your analytical results secure. It is your duty to report to risk and IT teams about potential risks. 

As for the challenges of the project, I think the greatest difficulty is that we do not have enough information about Lending Club. Though we had tried our best to search for more information about Lending Club, it is still not that possible to learn exactly their data policy and data structure. So only some general solutions can be offered. And I have contacted one of the staffs working at Lending Club, he also cannot offer very detailed information and that at least proved the data governance at Lending Club is doing pretty well. I think that it would be much better if I can know more about the exact data structure and organizational structure of Lending Club. 
